9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, [music] Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong, you're watching
the China show. I'm Ivon Man with David
and Glenn.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. Let's
get to your top stories [music] today.
The US and Iran reach an interim
agreement to reopen the [music] straight
of Horus. Now, both sides will meet in
Switzerland uh this coming Friday to
sign that agreement.
>> Asian equities rallying on the news as
oil falls, bread drops to below its 100
day moving average for the first time in
[music] 6 months. Plus, Ant Groupoup
tests an overhaul to its Alip Pay Super
app that would introduce [music] an AI
agent interface.
[music]
>> Well, we're kicking off this week on a
pretty positive note here. uh you know
what we saw on the weekend here it
wasn't just the Knicks winning in five
um but then also talking about this Iran
and US deal right certainly there's a
lot of questions that you know how close
are we really to getting some sort of
deal signed how long is it going to
stick and could it actually lead to some
sort of broader deal here
>> and I think markets are just taking the
headline first and I think pricing out
some premium I think it's worth keeping
in mind while we are seeing quite a
strong risk rally in the Asia Pacific
oil is still 20% higher than pre-war
levels I think just to keep that in in
context. Obviously, we're trying to
figure out what the details are going
into what eventually will be signed on
Friday and thereafter what that then
would mean in terms of the sort of more
difficult sticking points that would
eventually lead us to, of course, a more
permanent uh pre-war settings. That's
obviously a lot more uh to digest going
into the open today. But the stars have
aligned, of course, for risk assets.
Here's a decline in oil prices.
Obviously, um oil is New York crude is
81. We're below 84 on on Brent. This
goes into the central bank conversations
this week, which have of course at large
>> tried to bake in uh this moving target
of where inflation would be at this
point in time.
>> Yeah, I think you're going to start to
see maybe some of the unwind of these
rate hike bets, right? You certainly saw
that a little bit with the Fed as of
course Kevin Walsh becomes the governor
there for his first meeting of the FOMC.
So, we're already seeing the odds of
maybe a December rate high pair back a
bit uh this morning and certainly we'll
see how the end or the quote unquote end
of this conflict uh could really factor
into the central bank decisions of this
part of the world, right? Bank
Indonesia, right, which just a few days
ago had an offcycle rate hike. Uh
markets are still pricing in hikes for
that central bank as well along with BSP
certainly this week too.
>> Yeah, I mean jumbo hikes are still on
the table. I think you look at the
forecast there whether that's Indonesia
or the Philippines and I think Indonesia
of course to your point already moved.
Um so the moving target is still one
where inflation is higher uh for now.
Now despite all that of course markets
are breathing a side of relief. I think
it's also worth pointing out that SpaceX
did according to market terms did go did
go through uh goldilock scenario there.
Uh we're up now 3% as Taiwan comes
online on the regional benchmark. So
we'll obviously watch what the tailwinds
will look like going into the first
session of the week when China opens up
and really what that could also mean for
the broader EM space. EMFX I should
mention that too is bit and that's going
to be a very solid foundation for risk
assets to rally.
>> Yep. So you have the decline in oil, you
have the dollar cooling here as well
that should be helping this part of the
world. Let's get to the details here.
What really was agreed upon over the
weekend? President Trump says the
straight of Hormuz will reopen on Friday
upon the signing of the deal between the
US and Iran. Let's bring in our
Bloomberg editor, John Herskovitz, joins
us now. Um, so obviously, you know, it's
welcome news for markets. John, just
walk us through what are the key
elements of the deal so far.
>> Sure. I mean, the main thing is the
secession of hostilities between Iran,
the US, and also ending the uh
hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah
in Lebanon. When the deal is set, when
the memor memorandum of understanding is
set, it starts a 60-day clock to reach a
final agreement. Um, part of this is, as
you mentioned, the reopening of the
straight of Hormuz. Um, Iran is supposed
to get sanctions relief, a release of
frozen funds, but this is the contingent
on how Iran responds to the
implementation of the deal. There
provisions for respect of sovereignty.
um and a lot of questions about how all
of this will work out, but we have the
basics of an agreement. We have this
Friday for the possible signing and as
Trump said, this means reopening of the
straight of Hormuz, but a lot of things
there are a lot of moving parts with
this as well.
>> Talk to us about what we don't know.
What are the caveats, the differences?
What do we need to be watching out for
in as far as bridging some of those
gaps?
Yeah, I mean first of all with the
straight of hormuz it's um Iran is
saying that it along with Aman will be
um managing a managing shipping through
this. Trump says that this will be done
without tolls. Um also with the uh
sanctions relief and the release of
funds some of these require uh Congress
to um approval of Congress for them to
happen. Iran is also looking for some
restitution for um damage that was
suffered during the attacks. And also
there's just a matter of trust and
sequencing. What comes first? What
follows that? What does Iran need to do
to get a certain thing? How will the US
roll back roll back its blockade of
Iranian ports? Um we have a lot of these
you know very detailed things which are
which could go wrong quite quickly and
also we have uh Israel and Lebanon and
Hezbollah which has been a source of
difficulty for the negotiations as they
have gone forward.
>> John, thank you so much. John
Herskovitz, East Asia government editor.
Joining us now from Chicago is uh Robert
Pay, professor of political science at
the University of Chicago. He's known
for the strategic theory, the escalation
trap, which refers to really how
powerful nations can get sucked into
these prolonged conflicts. Professor,
good morning from the Asia Pacific.
Thank you for joining us. I know it's
it's a Sunday where you are. Uh so we
appreciate the time. How how optimistic
are you that we will get uh that this is
headed in the right direction? Well, I
want to be optimistic because obviously
that would be good for Hong Kong, Asia,
and the world. However, I think that we
need to be have some caution here
because despite the headlines, there are
quite a few uncertainties, not just
after a deal may be inked, but even
between now and Friday. You see, if you
listen to the deputy foreign minister of
Iran, who is the most senior person to
be speaking about this in detail, um he
says uh that yes, there will be a
signing on Friday, but that presumes
there will be uh some $12 billion
transferred uh the unfrozen funds of
Iran transferred right up front uh
before any opening of Hormuz uh occurs.
And then uh essentially 60 days later
another 12 uh billion dollar and then
this also presumes according to Iran
that there will be an end to the
hostilities by Israel in Lebanon. And if
we can just simply go 5 days without u
Israel attacking uh Hezbollah or
attacking Lebanon that would be quite
something because that has been going on
and heating up not just calming down. So
I think we t maybe have not quite a
memorandum of understanding. I think we
have more a memorandum of confusion. Now
that could be cleared up in a very
simple way if both sides would simply
release now the statements that they
have agreed to. And the very fact that
they're not re leaves this real question
about do they actually agree on the
terms or are they saying they want
between now and Friday to straighten it
out.
>> I guess what has been more I guess
urgent and immediate has been at least
relief I guess you could call it on on
reopening the straight of Hormuz.
How trusting should we believe that
things will be back to normal or can can
it go back to normal professor?
>> Well, it's never going to go back to
normal. So, the problems here that Asia
is going to face is that um Iran has
discovered it can close the straight of
form whenever it wants for any reason it
wants with just a handful of drones and
it might even be able to do it with a
handful of emails to the insurance
companies. So this is not going to go
away and this isn't going to go away
with any piece of paper that's inked on
Friday and this is uh going to the
leverage of Iran is also not going to
disappear and it's going to grow over
the next few months because you see
those oil inventories are still going to
be running down uh for a good 30 to 60
days once you start this process. This
is not like turning on the tap of a
faucet in our kitchens where the water
instantly comes out and goes into the
pan. The problem here is it will take 30
to 60 days before the first drops of oil
actually start to reach the refineries
and their markets. Uh and in that period
of time, those inventories are going to
run pretty close to dry. That is their
operational minimums. For the United
States, we know that is around uh from
the 348 million barrels of oil in the
reserve today. Their operational minimum
is somewhere around 300 million barrels
of oil, maybe 270, which means it hits
the wall at the end of July. And then
after that, the caves the that are made
of salt start to crumble and fall in
physically. So this is not um a
situation where Iran's leverage is going
to disappear. It's actually going to
grow during this 30 to 60 days.
>> Professor, the last time we spoke was I
think about 2 and a half months back.
And I think one thing that stood out
from that specific interview, at least
to me, was you told us watch where the
military assets um are being placed and
where they're being positioned. Um, is
that still a good indicator of the
direction of travel here?
>> Oh, absolutely. I mean, if it turns out
that President Trump doesn't just end
the blockade, but withdraws 50 70% of
the naval assets that have been moved to
the region, that's a huge indicator. If
we uh withdraw say 20,000 or 10,000 uh
troops that we have put in since the
war, that would really be a big
indicator. So for example, if those
airborne troops were to be taken out of
theater, that would be an indicator. If
the Marines would be physically lifted
back to their bases in uh the in Asia
and also in California, that would be a
major indicator. But so far, President
Trump hasn't said he's going to do that.
>> So, Professor, in terms of this, you
know, theory that you the escalation
trap, where where do you think things
are and where things stand now?
>> Uh, we're in what I would call the
middle game. I know everybody wants it
to be the endgame and the reason is
because the world is heading toward the
world is like the Titanic heading to the
iceberg of the end of the oil
inventories which are going to run out
around August 1st, August 7th, something
like that. All the oil execs agree and
even I think President Trump agrees
because I think that's why he is so
desperate to get a deal. He's doing
everything I think he can uh to get a
deal short of accepting a strategic
defeat. However, we are in the middle
here because President Trump is not
willing to accept a strategic defeat.
And what he wants is Iran to accept a
strategic defeat. Well, let's see if
Iran will do that. Will Iran cowtow to
Trump and say, "Oh, yes, we bow down.
We're not going to uh uh open the
straight of for close the straight of
form ever again." uh here. Um I think
this is going to be a tall order because
would we even really believe Iran's
words here? They've demonstrated the
power to close the straight of form
whenever they want. And the fact is they
want more than just simply uh uh selling
oil uh their own oil. They want American
forces to withdraw. So what I'm
expecting is in this middle game, Iran
will probably play the game of leverage
to get American forces to withdraw.
They'll first probably ask for again uh
50 70% of the naval assets to be
withdrawn. That is out of the region.
Then the next step would be um the
troops, those troops that were moved in,
they would ask those to be withdrawn.
And then step three would be close down
the bases, lock, stock, and barrel of
the 13 uh bases in the region. Those are
the kinds of things I'm looking for here
as the issues in the middle of the
escalation trap.
>> Okay, a part of me wants to just say,
let's not get ahead of ourselves,
Professor Pap. Now the let's just say
for argument's sake this this signing
coming on Friday does mark the end or
the you know the the end of the tunnel
is is very much inside u what strategic
uh objective do you think Donald Trump
was able to achieve let's say this does
mark the end how do we look at this
>> let's assume that the absolute best case
for America in the world happens which
is the war is over on Friday and the
straight stays open for the next 6
months or a year with no problems
whatsoever. Um then for President Trump,
he will of course say that is a victory.
Uh but it's not. It's a clear strategic
defeat. He will be a loser because that
is just returning the world uh to the
position of February 27, the pre-war
status quo ante. Well, we didn't need a
war to get to February 27. uh here. So
the bottom line is that um this point
I'm making that Iran can in the future
close the straight whenever it wants
that is going to be true even if it is
stays open for a year. This doesn't stop
it from closing the straight of Hormuz
in the future, which is why I think
we're likely going to have to pay. You
know, if we had to pay 24 billion to get
to this point, I think there's a good
chance they're going to come up with
reasons why we got to pay more here and
do more if that is going to go forward.
I mean, why why exactly are they not
going to do that? What what's the
reason? Because they're good
humanitarians.
Professor uh thanks so much. Lots to
think about here. Professor Robert Pave
there, professor of political science at
the University of Chicago. Well, still
ahead, we're have SWS joining us here.
Research chief analyst Jing Chen Jing
will be joining us as we [music] look at
how the expected reopening of the Street
of Hormuz weather does change the
outlook when it comes to markets as well
as central banks around the world. And
we're counting down the open of trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, [music] and Hong
Kong. This is the China show.
even so I think there is still a lot of
uncertainty as you just mentioned
[music] right how sustainable the deal
is um I I think that kind of uncertainty
is still there um that said um if the
deal is indeed you know uh come out. I
wouldn't say it does not necessarily
change our view about the economic
outlook, but I would say it's indeed
shifting the risk balance a little
[music] bit. You know, reduce some of
the downside risk and then, you know,
potentially we are [music] going to uh
get into the second half with a pretty,
you know, solid growth for the global
economy.
some of the reports of what Iran have
been asking for in terms of [music] um
reconstruction um uh you know capital
from the US and [music] and
seized fun or frozen funds and various
factors there could be a sticking point.
Um Trump has obviously denied and said
that that's not the case and we may know
more on Friday. Um but I think the
market wants to see it being signed and
try and move on. The question for oil of
course is how how quickly can we get
this normalization of flow back to 120
140 vessels east to west west to east
through the straight and [music] that
may take some time
and some of our guests there earlier
reacting to news of an interim peace
deal between the US and Iran markets are
going with it now particularly when it
comes to China futures were up close to
1% right now Asia also equities are up
close to 3% gains here really driven by
the likes of the nicke as well as the
costby here today. So certainly there's
a lot going on here. Let's bring in
Anthony Stevens, our markets reporter.
Uh tech is leading the drive again and
charge again. What do you think is
driving that? Is it all because of this
Iran deal or?
>> Yeah, it's important to remember that
tech was strong before the Iran deal,
right? We went home with some very
strong leads after SpaceX did reasonably
well, but not so well that it took money
from everything else. So US tech was
already very strong and now it's just
picking up where it left off as we check
off yet another macro checkpoint. Right?
So the the story is very consistent. The
tech earning story is front and center.
And now we clear these macro checkpoints
one by one. And we're seeing that in
investors chasing the largest names, the
biggest names, right? So you see MXAP up
three. That is very close to the
headline index everywhere else. So TSMC
is strong, Samsung, high people are not
trying to do anything cool. They're just
buying what has been working. And as
long as that continues, the setup for
Asian equities at the headline level is
very strong. Now as our session
continues, what will come into focus is
the genuinely emerging markets of the
Philippines, Indonesia, India, these oil
exported economies and the reaction
function those markets have will tell us
a lot more about how much people believe
this deal is done.
>> The incremental gains beyond what's
already been a safe bet, right? Okay.
So, EMFX is bit uh and I think two of
the economies you mentioned have central
bank decisions this week. How do we need
to be looking at this move in EMFX and
of course also the Fed and what they say
about where we go,
>> right? It's very interesting Fed meeting
because actually nothing is in the price
at all, right? The what the price on
swaps are indicating is there's no
change. It's the messaging that is up
for grabs here and Kevin Walsh has
gotten enough data points to actually
stay the course on his do nothing uh
course of action because inflation
expectations had been sliding into the
into the peace deal. So that's been one
of the big things in markets that
inflation swaps have actually been
trending lower. Inflation in the US is
actually remarkably well anchored. The
understanding that this war is
transitory is being priced by the market
and that is the Fed's preferred source
of inflation pricing. So from an
inflation Fed perspective, Asian FX is
fine. From their own central banks
though, the messaging around incoming
hikes will be very important to keep the
strength going. and Indonesia was the
first to indicate that they would be on
on deck with that.
>> Anthony, thank you. Anthony Stevens
there, our Bloommer markets reporter on
what really is going to be driving uh
the rates markets and the like in the
next coming days here when you have a
you know it's a long list of central
banks that are all meeting here. Uh
perfect timing that you know we we have
some sort of deal that's being framed
here and of course is marking President
Trump's 80th birthday today too.
>> Yeah. Uh and of course that ongoing I
think fight card of the UFC uh that I
believe is still going on of course uh
in the White House lawn there. Lots to
get into of course big big sports
weekend as we go into the session today
25,000 on the Hanging Index. Guess what
[music] name is leading these gains?
Lenovo, right? Lots more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
>> Right, welcome back. You just a partial
list of a very long list now of sectors
we're tracking across the Chinese
markets. oil because energy because of
the move down in oil, precious metals,
crypto on the back of the move up
certainly in that related commodity,
truck makers are very much in focus too
on a separate story that China's laying
out of course his road map. Uh no pun
intended there in terms of the
electrification of trucks. Uh space
related stocks of course had a big move
on Friday before that Space X u debut
and of course that's I guess day two as
we go into uh the session here today
here.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So certainly there's a lot
at hand uh of what this whole Iran deal
could mean uh really when it comes to
oil markets, right? As we just heard
from Professor Robert Pay from
University of Chicago, right? It takes
up to two months possibly to really kind
of clear that waterway and allow for of
course uh these tankers and commercial
freight uh to run past it again. And
whether it there's enough trust that's
being put for that to happen. And then
it takes, you know, we're getting closer
to that time when oil inventories around
the world are basically drying up and
being depleted, right? So, you know, can
we keep oil markets lower here up until
maybe Friday when something gets signed
or even beyond that here at the moment?
Hangen though, here's how your premarket
is looking at. We're up about 1% here.
Oil names are pretty mixed right now.
Petrochina and CNO are following the oil
price lower, but some of which are still
higher [music] this morning. Gold stocks
also doing this given what we saw when
it comes to the price of bullion. So
certainly there's a lot at hand for some
[music] of these miners here. There you
go. Rallying. We're at 4,300 when it
comes to gold spot this morning. The
open [music] is next. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. We're cutting down to the open of
markets here. The cash markets are set
to [music] rally alongside of course
what we're seeing anyway across the
region. Cash markets in Asia are bid uh
quite substantially on the back of the
encouraging [music] news uh between the
US and Iran. US and European futures are
also bid substantially and we are closer
to 80 on brands than we have been really
since the war began. But whether or not
we break below that and head towards 70
which was the pre-war level is still uh
a very different conversation.
>> Yes. The straight [music] of hormone is
set to open according to of course the
US here when it comes to on Friday of
course and then it starts 60 days of
negotiations right [music] and that is
probably where some of the more
contentious sort of issues are still
unresolved when you talk about these
financial incentives that Iran is
seeking out for when [music] it comes to
lifting of sanctions. uh that sort of a
lot of lingering questions around that
and of course a nuclear [music] program
in Iran and really how all these get
resolved and whether this peace deal
could actually be lasting is still sort
of up in the air.
>> Yeah, I mean we don't even know what the
draft looks like and I think that that
was the point of our guest earlier on
Robert P. And I think once of course uh
we do have more details on what exactly
that early prelim agreement looks like
uh will obviously determine the odds we
can attach to some permanence peace deal
uh moving forward. Just in case you're
curious, our folks at Bloomberg
Economics are attaching quite a low
probability uh in terms of that being
able to uh uh uh lead into a more
lasting framework here. In fact, let me
just read that to you. We assess the
odds of any deal lasting or low.
Instead, both sides are likely to use
any lull in hostilities to prepare for
the next round of fighting. Let that uh
sink in as far as that's concerned.
Couple of markets coming online. We'll
get to the Philippines in a moment
because I think that market is up over
3%. But yeah, CSR300 joining into this
rally here today.
>> Yeah, and really China has been largely
kind of missing out, right, when it
comes to this risk rally of late. So,
we'll see what the appetite uh is when
it comes to Chinese investors here. SWS
research is going to be joining us in
just a couple of moments as well. Uh in
terms of what we're watching very
closely. So, you do see some of these
tech names uh some of the you know, the
chip makers in domestically still doing
quite well. Cameracon's up close to two.
Hong Kong's looking like this here right
now. So you are seeing HS Tech driving
that here once again. So you are seeing
gains from Xiaomi, Baba 10 Center, all
up about 1% or so. BU is the exception.
We're actually heading lower here this
morning. And we're watching very closely
dollar China moves as well. Still some
strength that you're seeing across EMFX
here today. So dollar China is at around
that just below that 676 level here this
morning. In terms of movers, of course,
the oil majors and the likes are
certainly going to be front and center
here now that as Dave mentioned, we're
getting closer to that $80 handle when
it comes to crude prices there. Uh there
Shanghai crude is down seven. So you are
seeing most of these oil majors in China
falling today. Truck makers also we've
got some regulations here uh when it
comes to some of these uh electric
trucks there. So mapping out heavy truck
electrification push with a 40% goal. So
we're watching the likes of CDI for
example listed here in Hong Kong that's
up about close to 2% here today. Uh also
when it takes to rocket stock so
obviously we talked about the SpaceX IPO
that debut seemed to have gone pretty
smoothly. Not you know Goldilocks as
Dave mentioned here that not enough to
suck that liquidity uh out of the rest
of the markets here but you are seeing
some of these space stocks uh slightly
lower here this morning. and Miniax and
Drew. That's interesting one from JP
Morgan. They downgraded Miniax to
neutral from overweight and slashing the
price target by more than half. And
they're citing some concerns when it
comes to model leadership from Miniax
and the visibility when it comes to
monetization. Uh so this is really due
to what Miniax and their repricing that
they saw when it came to what they saw
last week uh for M3. Uh separately
though, they're keeping the overweight
rating on Drew Pooh. So they're saying
when it comes to the the visibility side
of things in terms of earnings and stuff
uh they might have more of that pricing
power. So that's why that price target
raised to 1,400 when it comes to Jup
here.
>> Yeah. And finally some nuance and
context there right because most people
in the market tend to you know lump both
stocks into the same basket. And I think
the interesting point here is there is
of course some differences between the
two. 400 is that new price target coming
out of uh JP Morgan on uh on the former
there. Uh okay. Uh apart from that,
other things to track as we go into the
open today. Do we have the open in the
Philippines? Just to mention that too
because it's brought EM rallies also
playing out. So that's that's a that's a
market I'm watching very closely today.
Can we get the Philippines up uh before
we get into the app story? And of course
the other thing I want to point out is
Indonesia of course which gets underway
in about 30 minutes. uh just to
underscore that if we see gains here and
gains there in Indonesia uh and if we
see lasting gains there that would
indicate of course a somewhat of a
material shift in in sentiment right
because these are two markets just
representative of markets that have been
on offer and if we get incremental
buying into this because you know what
when you look at AI and the Taiwan names
and the Korean names we know of course
those are fairly substantially bid if we
get more details here on these then it
could mark the shift of course in terms
of the
You're seeing the Philippines that
relief rally underway. I'm interested to
see what Indonesia does at the top of
the hour given that keep in mind also
this re MSsei reclassification review is
happening this month, right? There's
still a lot of lingering concerns that
this market is going to be downgraded to
frontier status and if that's the case
that could lead to even more outflows
here.
>> Yeah, that's what actually kicked off
that review that kicked off this whole
bout of u underperformance in that
market. Right. So that comes of course
uh full circle this week depends of
course on what they say. Okay. Uh we're
up 3% now uh on the regional benchmark.
All right let's talk about this other
story. Ant group uh is said to be
testing this overhaul of its Alip pay
super app that would then introduce an
AI agent interface within of course the
uh the app itself. Now it's a major
escalation in its battle of course for
users uh with its uh big other rival of
course which is WeChat. Let's bring in
Minlo, our China correspondent here to
tell us about this new AI agent and how
this guest bakes into the broader uh
Alipe ecosystem.
>> Yes, it's going to be called APA, which
rhymes with the Chinese name of Tufu
Pao. Um Chinese name of Alipe called
Chua. And uh so in the future, you'll be
able to ask Apa to order you a takeout
coffee or book you a cab. And of course,
this is as you said, an escalation of
this race, right, with the other super
app in China, WeChat. Both Alip Pay and
WeChat have more than a billion users
each. So, whoever does this better is
going to have an edge. And I think the
key uh differentiating uh characteristic
for Alipe is that it's more of a payment
and also a wealth management app, right?
So, APA will also be able to do things
like basic sort of wealth management
tasks like buy into a mutual fund with
user authorization of course.
>> Um what about monetization? Is there a
clear pathway or still concerns around
that?
>> Yeah, that's still a major concern. and
in fact a major concern for many of
these tech apps, right? Because has been
investing heavily into AI. It has its
own humanoid robot that it showcased not
too long ago. It was able to do some
basic uh tasks in the kitchen. It has
its own large language model. It has
this AQ healthcare app as well where
they train AI versions of doctors so you
can ask AI doctors about your problems.
And now with this AI agent roll out and
as
>> health problems to be more specific,
[laughter]
>> health problems. That's right. And as
our Bloomberg intelligence teams, uh,
Robert Lee likes to say, with AI agent,
you're really massively ramping up the
use of computing power and the token
price in China is so cheap that these
tech companies will likely have to
absorb some of that cost as well.
>> All right, Mman, thank you. Our China
correspond low there. Uh, you know,
staying in tech here, uh, this was a
pretty big news here. anthropic has
disabled access to its most advanced AI
models following an unprecedented order
by the Trump administration. The US
government earlier ordered the company
to suspend access for foreign nationals,
citing national security concerns. Let's
bring in April Hong. She's here with
more. April, what else do we know about
this new directive from the US
government?
Yeah, following this directive that
Enthropic says was issued late on
Friday, Enthropic has suspended the
access for its most advanced the top of
the range on its AI model. So that's the
Fable 5 as well as the Mythos 5 models.
And it is likely as some of our
colleagues have highlighted that
Enthropic didn't have a direct way in
which it could sort of verify the
citizenship of some of its users and
therefore the most straightforward route
in order to comply with this US
directive which was on the basis of
national security concerns u that it was
to you know suspend access altogether.
So this basically means that US and
foreign nationals alike now do not have
access to the product and Enthropic has
said that it disagrees with the finding.
It says that it thinks this directive
followed the government discovering that
it was possible to jailbreak or bypass
Fable 5 guard rails. And of course Fable
5 is the version of its AI model that is
more widely accessible to developers as
well as enterprises. And from what we
understand also separate reporting
suggests from the Wall Street Journal
that the discovery followed researchers
at Amazon actually undertaking jailbreak
research and then that's how the uh
vulnerabilities were uncovered. Amazon's
team is also said to have been in
contact with the US government prior to
these export controls being imposed. And
we're also hearing separate reporting
that Anthropic has dispatched its top
technical staff to DC to kind of iron
things out a little with US officials.
>> So, April, so we've heard some reaction
closer to the center. What other
reaction have we heard, if any, and you
know, where does this take us next here?
>> Yeah. So in terms of the reaction so
far, we've heard how there are these
concerns because this is something we
haven't seen before the US government
controlling AI models rather than the
underlying chip supply chain. So the
worry is might this set a sort of
precedent at the time when these AI
model developers are working to show
that their technology can turn a profit
and as you know Enthropic and Open AI
they're racing towards an IPO that could
come as soon as this year. Might it also
mean a tightening of some of these AI
national security rules? Not to mention
the confusion this sort of sews for US
AI policy. As our colleagues have
highlighted, the details on this for now
are still quite scant. And of course uh
we've also heard some reaction from a
former Trump AI ZAR and that's David
Saxs. He's been talking about how he
hopes anthropic will fix the jailbreak
issue, the export controls can be lifted
and then Fable 5 can go back to uh
general release.
>> Averil, thank you. Averil Hong in
Singapore uh for us there. We're about
10 minutes uh just cross the 10-minute
mark into the cash market session here.
We're up 1% on the CSI 300. We'll leave
you a look at that and other benchmarks
as we this fresh trading week gets
underway.
>> [music]
>> All right. uh risk assets are continuing
here to really kind of a sense of relief
across the board when you take a look at
what's been going on with um the US and
Iran uh supposedly reaching a deal here
to reopen the straight of Hermuz on
Friday and then it begins of course
talks in Switzerland which our Bloomberg
economics team says that's where the
hard work begins because you still got
to iron out a lot of details about how
this waterway is going to be reopened
and then of course a lot of lingering
questions around nuclear capabilities
you know sanctions and the like but then
And look at how markets are dealing here
right now, right? Dollar is notably
weaker here across the board. It comes
to EMF effect. You're seeing gains here
when it comes to the Juan, Taiwan
dollar, also the peso as well. And
dollar China sitting pretty at 675 here
this morning. So, uh, certainly it's
going to be pretty interesting to hear
what central banks have to say because
of of the repricing already we're
seeing.
>> Yes, I mean we have a lot of big ones
this week. I think the BOJ begins its
two-day meeting today. towards midweek.
Of course, you get the likes of the
Philippines, Indonesia, the Fed, of
course, will be front and center uh this
week and it's taken a couple of months
for inflation to show up from the energy
spike and energy crisis. Uh so, it will
take a few more months for inflation to
then respond to any uh end to the war.
And I think central banks will need to
look forward. It's a moving target and
let's see how they frame it. All things
equal, economists do expect some hikes,
including per potentially jumbo ones, 50
basis point hikes out of bank Indonesia
and the Philippines this week. Something
to keep in mind. Japan of course has its
different set of dynamics there and we
are expecting the interest rate in Japan
to be taken back to a level we last saw
in 1995.
>> All right. Uh, joining us now from
Shanghai is Jin Chen Jing, head of
global asset allocation research and
chief analyst at SWS research, a
subsidiary of China's state-owned
brokerage company, Shenuan Hong Yen. Uh,
it's great to have you, Chenzing. I
mean, markets are already going with it
that perhaps the end is near when it
comes to this conflict. How are you
interpreting the news?
Um I guess the actually the uh the
breaking news has a big effect on the uh
market performance uh immediately after
it breaks out and uh we can see that uh
uh most of the uh risky assets is
actually having a recovery and as well
as gold. Uh I think the most important
uh effect of this deal is that it helps
to alleviate the war risk per which
actually turns to our lower probability
of rate hike from the fed this week. And
also I think uh another thing we need to
watch is that uh those nonAI uh uh
sectors may even recover uh more uh from
this news because uh previously they are
actually suppressed by the fear of
higher uh oil price and that's my
observation. Thank you.
Um, do any specific
equity sectors or markets across the
Asia-Pacific stand out that you think
will outperform given the breaking news
we've had on the weekend on Iran?
Well, from my perspective, uh the first
is those market that is mostly uh uh
largely suppressed by the high oil price
especially those emerging market with
really low oil uh you know stocks and
may have some supply chain problems with
those uh with those with risk. So uh
those uh market I think will have better
performance and in terms of sectors uh I
do think there are some nonAI sectors
like some traditional sectors for
example some of the manufacturing
sectors which are actually uh threated
by a high oil price may have a a better
recovery from this news.
um how what what indications are you
looking for to to ensure
that whatever deal we get is is going to
be long lasting. I mean as someone that
watches the markets very closely, what
are still some of the lingering
questions that you have to make sure
that you know the trajectory that we're
seeing across these markets can actually
sustain.
Well, that is a good question because we
already seeing that this um this deals
has been talking uh
several rounds and I guess as we
reaching the uh into the third quarter
and I think from both sides uh from Iran
and the US both sides have more
pressures to actually reaching a real
deal. So I think uh from the probability
perspective uh this this uh I think this
time the deal might uh last for uh for a
longer time and actually it has comes to
some details about how we going to uh
reopen the straits and how we going to
deal with the uh the sanction and more
detailed news has comes out. So uh I
think this news would this good news may
last for uh longer than the previous uh
news. Thank you.
>> Would you recommend buying US treasuries
at this point?
>> Uh one thing is that I think uh for the
uh uh from the short-term rate
perspective as I as I expect there will
be only like zero or one time at most
rate hike for the Fed this year. And
with this breaking news, I think there
the the the pressure has go down to only
zero zero times rate hike. So from the
short-term rate point of view uh we
don't see there is a much pressure going
up and also from the risk of premium uh
point uh perspective uh because uh this
year we don't see there is a lot of uh
pressure on uh more uh US deficit uh US
fiscal deficit going up and also I think
uh when Kevin Walsh actually uh go on
the uh the Fed board uh he would not
implement the so-called balance sheet
reduction very quickly. because that is
more like a systematic uh work to do. So
uh from the premium side I think the
risk is controllable. So at this current
level like 4.5 US treasury rate I think
uh the rate is uh the coupon rate is
high and the duration rate uh risk is
generally uh controllable. So that's
what I think that is a good uh price to
buy. Thank you.
Okay, that's interesting, right? Where
you you think, you know, the duration
risk is controllable at this point. You
you recommend sort of this strategy,
right? So, holding low volatility
short-term bonds, you pair that with
these AI tech stocks. Where are you
looking at in this AI trade now
geographically?
Um I think the AI trend as generally
going upward uh still in the big trend
one for sure and uh we have to uh
recommend or we have to point it out. I
think the for the second half of the
year we also need to pay more attention
to the Chinese computing power uh capex
trend. uh we can see that with the
combination uh with deepseek and uh the
the Huawei chips um this might in uh I
would say ignited the enthusiasm for the
packers in the of the Chinese domestic
computing power. So uh in in terms of
the market that we can also uh find more
opportunities on this side not only just
uh those opportunities driven by the big
names in the US market.
M
>> tell us some of those names like what
what stands out to you like what should
foreign investors be looking at in as
far as the Chinese domestic uh markets
are concerned
>> uh like Hanguji like uh those chips uh
actually driven by the domestic uh capex
like Hanguji and some uh also uh uh in
from the uh the Chinese mark uh the Hong
Kong market. There are also some uh new
names from the Chinese own model and I
think all those names may be uh might be
uh benefit from this trend. Thank you.
Thank you so much uh for your time uh uh
Jin Chen Jing the head of global asset
allocation research and chief analyst at
SWS uh research for our Bloomberg
clients and many of you out there of
course if you have more questions on
what's going on here and some lingering
questions we have more in fact analysis
on what's going on here across all our
platforms uh of course colleagues Heidi
of course will be joining that Jenny
Marsh Serin Chong and John Herskovich
[music] a live Q&A audio conversation
that's going to be happening on our
website uh very soon in a couple of
minutes. So of course [music] do join
that get your questions in and for our
Bloomberg clients of course you know how
to reach that. If you don't you know how
to reach [music] us and we'll guide you
in as far as that direction is
concerned.
>> All right we're going to leave you some
pictures that are happening in the south
lawn of the white house here right now
where Donald Trump is bringing the UFC
to DC here uh as part of his 80th
birthday [music] celebration and the
250th anniversary of the US. So, you
know, the president obviously enjoying
his birthday here on the back of what
[music] he has tentatively agreed upon
with some sort of deal with Iran over
the weekend as well. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Right. We're looking at uh a lot of
these macro adjacent sectors given of
course the drop we're seeing in oil
prices. Do we eventually see a drop in
jet fuel which obviously there's some
friction and stickiness around that
relationship between those two prices
and even more so when it comes to
airfares and will these airlines
eventually be convinced enough to sort
of increase capacity? Uh, and of course
for the common folk like you and me,
Ivonne, are we eventually going to face
lower airfares? Anyway, the markets are
running with this. Yeah, they're
astronomical at this point in time
still.
>> Yeah, look, Korean Air, we're down.
We're up close to 13%. Uh, also when it
comes to some of the pure plays in
China, lots of talk here. What's going
on when it comes to Miniax and Jupu? Uh,
Jubu shares are rallying, get this,
well, at one point as much as 48%. We
come off that, we're just rallying 29%.
>> Yeah. Sorry for the bulls. Thanks to JP
Morgan raising its price target by
nearly 50% here and really talking about
leading models and improved pricing
power uh from the likes of Jupu Minax on
the other hand they actually downgraded
that to neutral here uh because of
concerns of monetization
>> right Chinese benchmarks are rallying we
are expecting [music] also a rally when
Jakarta comes online in a couple of
minutes and of course the Philippines
just worth pointing and we'll talk more
about this up the most in 5 years lots
more ahead
>> [music]
>> We're in what I would call the middle
game. I know everybody wants it to be
the endgame and the reason is because
[music] the world is heading toward the
world is like the Titanic heading to the
iceberg of the end of the oil
inventories which are going to run out
around August 1st, [music] August 7th,
something like that. All the oil execs
agree and even I think President Trump
agrees because I think that's why he is
so desperate to get a deal. He's doing
everything I think he [music] can uh to
get a deal short of accepting a
strategic defeat.
>> There are two important elements of
Trump's statement today. He said that um
the US blockade would be uh lifted
immediately and that there would be
potentially a 60-day window uh in which
Iran could have a license to increase
its oil sales or [music] to sell without
any restrictions. So, I think those
things will be well received by the
market. Um other elements around what
the future of transit looks like through
the state through the straight of are
really quite uncertain at this point and
as you said there are conflicting
statements between Iran and the United
States.
Some of our guests earlier reacting to
news of an interim peace deal between
the US and Iran. So certainly still a
lot of lingering questions as as Robert
Pay mentioned right the opening
reopening the street of Hormuz uh is is
not like just flipping of a switch here.
Obviously, it's going to take some time
whether it's clearing out mines, whether
it's kind of letting of course of
whether tankers have the trust to
really, you know, go through the
waterway and certainly we're still
talking about 60 days of negotiations
ahead of us here in Switzerland
>> if they sign on Friday.
>> If they sign on Friday,
>> if they sign on Friday, right? And I
think that seems to be lost just looking
at the market reaction
>> uh today that we're not actually back
we're not even back to square one
>> uh when you look at where markets are,
where pre-war settings were concerned,
right? So I think um it's very important
to put this into context and we have yet
to actually see the draft of whatever
agreement will be signed on Friday. Not
to take away of course from the
encouraging news but once we do get that
draft signed on next week that then
begins the process of negotiating
the more difficult parts of the
conversation which brought us into the
war to begin with right with the nuclear
program. Yeah.
>> U what what have you. So, and both sides
seem to be casting this deal
>> in in different lights, right? And
you're talking about even minutes after
it was announced. So, there is still, as
Robert Pay mentioned, the fact that
hasn't been released. uh the details
from both sides is is a telling signal
of just uh maybe there's still a lot of
mistrust out there between the two sides
and still a lot of lingering questions
because Lebanon is also part of this
deal whether Israel will actually play
ball here and agree to that because up
until now they've actually opposed to
stop their military operations in
Lebanon
>> which I think Robert P then said it
would be an accomplishment in itself if
we didn't see uh Israel bombing Lebanon
over the next five five days or so
>> before Friday
>> before Friday right and the the New York
Times citing the president, President
Trump who described his conversation
with um uh Benjamin Netanyahu as as as
difficult as that was a few hours back.
I just to underscore of course the
complexity of this but in any case of
course the markets are running with the
encouraging news. Not to take away
anything from that of course with the
Philippines of course one of the markets
that really had taken this on the chin
because the inflation concern up the
most uh in about 5 years or so.
Indonesia is flying out of the gates.
We're up about 3% on that specific
market there. uh flip the page because a
lot of this has to do with the fact that
the dollar is on offer today. This rally
we're seeing across most uh the FX space
with with the exception of the yen which
is as you can see flat right now on
dollar yen. But apart from that, we're
trying to figure out how low can oil go.
Uh we're now at 83 84 on the most active
contract on Brent. We're closer to 81 in
fact closer to 80 on West Texas. And
really what what does the road ahead
look like if we were to imagine a world
where Brent gets back to
>> let's call it 6970 which was the level
effectively before the war uh broke out
back in late Feb.
>> Yeah. For more on what the implications
are on this deal on energy markets
joining us is Sarah Vakuri, founder and
president at SVP Energy International.
Sarah, it's good to have you on the
program. Our oil market is certainly
seeing a substantial cooling just given
what we've heard over the weekend. How
encouraged are you about the prospects
of the straight of hormones being
reopened soon?
>> So the oil market have been reacting to
the headlines since the beginning of the
war and has been obviously now uh priced
in the peace. Uh while the realities on
the market and in the physical market
has been different and since uh in the
past 3 months uh as much as the
historical disruption was the big news
adaptation was the other one. So the
market has adapted adjusted uh through
the buffers lower uh imports but how
optimistic we can be there are a lot of
ifs already for this even though that
has been yet strongest uh statement uh
since the beginning of the war but there
is that 60 days buffer uh and
negotiation that you mentioned also the
straight of horm blockade will open upon
the signature of the deal in Friday so
uh there are a lot of uh things that
could happen and I think on the physical
side the market uh on the ground people
have had heard this a lot. So we have to
wait and see what really is going to
happen but if it happens definitely
there are a lot of inventories in the
region before even the uh producing
countries get back to their previous
production that they could start
exporting from those inventories.
Sarah David here. Do you see a path
back? Let's call it 83 now on Brent. Do
you see a path back to 69?
>> Uh you know if the market is uh if we
see the tankers start moving uh again uh
the point is that uh before even the
straight of was closed or the blockade
was imposed the tankers stop moving
because of tanker insurance the rates
the the crew didn't want to go. So if we
see a flow of tankers uh and uh start
moving to the region and start loading
we could see that price but as of now
yet the market has just priced the piece
cautiously we have to see what will
happen on the ground. So as I mentioned
yes I think if the the the straight of
hor is really open and the market starts
seeing that tankers are going the the
they're feeling comfortable to move even
not to the 100% pre-war uh levels but as
the tankers start moving and as I said
even though there are anticipations that
will take some time for countries to
restore their pre-war production but a
lot of inventories in the region are
full because the countries could not
export it for long uh for the past three
months. So um I would say it depends on
what will happen on the ground.
>> Sarah, I mean we had a guest earlier,
Robert Pate, that said, you know, oil
inventories around the world are are are
basically getting to, you know, run dry
basically maybe around August or so. I
mean, how are you looking at inventory
levels right now? Because you could
argue that maybe that's the reason why
oil prices up until now haven't really
breached 100. But once those inventories
are depleted, you know, what could
happen to oil prices?
>> So, um there has been a lot of warning,
a lot of dates every uh a lot of two
weeks, two weeks to come that uh has
been anticipated. But as I mentioned, uh
the market has adapted uh significantly.
So that was uh uh very interesting to
observe. So yes, we had the buffers and
inventories a big part of that uh
adaptation and adjustment. So the prices
did not go shockingly high, but we had
also the import adjustments. We had
Japan and significantly China reducing
their imports uh rerouting of oil flow
uh refineries adjusting their uh diet
some of them also excrease increase of
uh exports from United States. So yes,
the story of inventories is real. Uh if
they uh end, we're going to have a real
problem because regardless of uh what
the paper market is going to price the
oil, the physical and actual access is
important. The August specifically comes
because you know we are hitting the
summer season that we need a lot of
production which United States has so
far been successful to exporting and
supplying as much as it could but the
inventories could run out at some point
seasonal demand in summer. But August
particularly come for the time that the
countries will start replenishing their
stock for getting ready for fall. So
August and September are the times that
the market are worried about it. But
before the August come out, it was the
summer time. So as I say, uh despite the
panics in the market, the adjustment and
adaptation had helped yet this is not a
sustainable and long-term strategy
because that buffer as you mentioned at
some point will run out.
Yeah. Um
>> perhaps more in the physical market if I
could ask you about things like jet jet
fuel for example. Um certainly there
have been adjustments in the futures
market parts of the physical market but
things say jet fuel for example of
course there's no way around. I mean we
we don't have EVs when it comes to
planes. Uh just your thoughts on where
the airlines go with this moving
forward.
Well uh yes definitely we could see a
lot of uh and it has been actually
happening a lot of uh flight
cancellation adjustments
uh the prices of uh the prices of
definitely tickets have been increased
but what is very important is also again
as I mentioned the adjustments uh so we
had some significant adjustments uh
let's say in some of the refineries uh
diet we've seen that a huge uh purchase
of fuel oil uh in the market which uh
you know uh uh many refiners start
started uh producing more lighter
products from fuel oil instead of crude
oil uh United States production but yes
as you mentioned again this is not a
sustainable
um solution because at some point we're
going to run out if the straight of
hormones is not uh open.
>> How do you think Asia energy importers
are going to react to this this news? I
mean they basically have spent months
>> mapping out alternative options trying
to reduce the reliance on the straight
of Hormuz. Do you think they'll continue
on that pathway or do you think now that
this war seemingly is coming to some
sort of end that that reliance will go
back to what it was before?
>> Um I would say actually the legacy of
this uh conflict would be a lot of
adjustments. So we're going to see a lot
of um importers and a lot of countries
thinking about opt uh additional and
alternative logistics suppliers in the
market adjustments in the refineries. So
we're going to see some long-term
changes but also one lesson that the
market learned was that how logistical
diversification
uh increased the energy security
resistance. We had Saudi Arabia most
like most of above all and also UAE
being able to export part of that oil
that was stranded inside the uh region
through their alternative logistics that
had to bypass the rate of Hermus. So we
could see a lot of more investment and
attention to alternative logistics in
routes uh and also as I mentioned
adaptations moving forward. But we have
seen a lot of government policies you
mentioned in Asia China's uh significant
reduction of imports uh Japan's uh
policy a lot of prioritization and we
just now have been talking only about
oil definitely there are other molecules
that are passing through the straight of
vermoose including LNG and market even
though the LNG alternative has been much
less than oil in the market we've seen
that Asian especially uh importers have
easily adjusted I wouldn't I didn't say
easily but somehow adjusted by burning
more coal uh or alternatives to LNG for
the petrochemical imports definitely
inventories and some uh government
policies in term of prioritizing what is
important let's say in Japan now for the
past three months production of medical
supplies have been in the priority list
of uh petrochemical industries and then
we have helium we have fertilizers so uh
it's not just oil and It's very
important for global economy uh energy
and food security.
>> Sarah, thank you so much for the time.
Sarah Vakuri there, head uh founder and
president and head of course of SBB
Energy uh International joining us from
Washington today. Uh in the next hour,
we'll hear exclusively from Pakistan's
finance minister Muhammad Aang Zeb here
after Islamabad in fact playing quite a
key role in mediating a deal between
[music] the US and Iran. But first,
we're speaking with LG's Asia head of
investment strategy, Ben Bennett, and
why he sees possibly more monetary
[music] policy tightening in this part
of the world. That's next. This is
Bloomberg.
All right, we're taking a look when it
comes to US futures. They are punching
higher across the board here this
morning. US futures are up close to 1%
for S&P. NASDAQ futures are close to 2%.
Uh g punching gains here this morning.
So certainly a lot of optimism when Wall
Street opens up and wakes up once
they've recovered I guess from of course
this Knicks win
>> and eventually the UFC.
>> They're still partying I heard from our
directors in New York.
>> Won't be surprised, right? what
[laughter] uhif 50 years of pent
frustration and demand and
>> uh really goes to show the longer you
wait at some point you're um you'll be
correct in your in your call. Uh joining
us here on set, Ben Bennett, Asia head
of investment strategy at LG. Good
morning. Very nice to see you. Breaking
news obviously.
>> Yeah.
>> Um how have markets changed compared to
Friday.
>> So we're all looking at the oil price. I
mean that's the thing that's driving
everything but frankly the oil price had
already fallen a fair bit on the
expectation of this deal. So the move
today I mean it's it's a decent size
move but not out of kilter with what
we've seen over the last couple of
months really.
>> So then if this is sustainable if we
continue to see the oil price fall then
we all look at treasuries of course and
the yield fall that we've seen there a
little bit I actually think that it
might not be as much as people expect. I
think still we've got inflation in the
US that's quite sticky. We've seen this
huge amounts of expenditure from the AI
projects that's building some of those
goods inflation stickiness that I still
wouldn't be surprised if we continue to
expect a rate hike by the Federal
Reserve by the end of the year. Of
course, we we'll see what what Kevin
Walsh says this week, but you know,
maybe maybe that's still a possibility.
>> So, you think yields are still heading
higher? How do you look at duration risk
now? Yeah, I actually think the overall
that the move that we've seen because of
the Iranian conflict that could be
sustainable that move. I don't know if
they're going to go that much higher,
but I think actually those those yield
moves a bit like inflation might prove
sticky. So yeah, I'm not I'm not a
massive uh bull here on the on the US
rates markets, but there are other rates
markets that are going to I think
perform pretty well on a relief rally.
>> Well, tell us more. So for example in
Asia we we've seen uh Indonesia sell off
uh significantly over the last few weeks
not just Indonesia but the Philippines
India those countries those high beta
countries the uh yeah the relief rally
that we might get because yeah energy
supply is going to be a lot more
comfortable that relief m rally might
drive those those bonds better those
bond yields lower and the currencies
stronger we've been underweight a lot of
those Asian countries particularly
Indonesia
um over the last few months and actually
over the last couple of weeks we've been
adding back some risk because we worry
that when these headlines hit that sort
of higher beta stuff might be the place
that rallies.
>> Have you think policy makers in
Indonesia have have they done enough to
convince you? I mean you say you're
incrementally buying back in this
market. What what more do you need to
see?
>> Yeah, I mean they they hiked interest
rates in an emergency meeting. They're
meeting again this week. Uh they I know
the uh
>> the equity indices want to see more in
terms of governance. So that type of
thing will get me more comfortable
within Indonesia. We've actually added
back outside of Indonesia, we've added a
little bit of risk uh within Pakistan,
within Kenya. So another more high beta
countries that should benefit from a
sustainable deal. Indonesia, we're still
waiting and seeing as you see for more
policy.
>> What was the assumption there? Why have
you been adding? Well, again, we've been
looking at the oil price and and
your oil experts have been on discussing
what might happen when they reopen the
Straits of Hormuz, how long it takes.
Also looking at, you know, potentially
uh supply disruptions elsewhere. But we
have seen the oil price fall. So if the
oil price has been falling, that's
telling you that there is an easing of
that supply.
>> So we can trust we can trust the oil
markets getting that one right as the
perhaps the best leading indicator.
>> Almost the price is your friend here.
Exactly. rather than the analysis and
and personally from my perspective. I'm
not an oil expert, so I have to trust
that that price is right. We don't know
when China runs out of the inventory
that's been drawn down. Of course,
that's a that's been a huge question
mark, but at least the oil price is
telling us that there should be some uh
some easing of conditions there.
>> You've also reduced your tech equity
overweight just about a month ago. Um
tell us, I mean, how how willing are you
just to stay in that sort of stance for
now? I mean given that you still
continue to see Korea and then some of
these North Asian benchmarks do very
well.
>> That reduction was a tactical move based
on the fact that we've had an amazing
run recently in technology stocks
predicated on our you know an amazing Q1
earning season up 60% in the technology
sector in the US. So that run allowed us
to reduce some of our overweight
position and maybe take a breather and
see what happened. Uh there has been a
bit of a correction and we'll see where
the NASDAQ closes today, but it's down a
few percent. But we're looking to buy
back on weakness. Maybe we'll be buying
back today on the back of these
headlines because that that is another
trigger for this. So it's a temporary
reduction. We still love the technology
sector based on those earnings, but you
know, when they've run up so much in
such a small period of time, you've got
to uh you got to take a breather
sometimes.
>> What are the chances Korea ends lower
this year at the end of by the end of
this year compared to 8,500? Let's call
that the line.
>> Yeah, I think I think a 50/50 chance. I
mean, it's because the move that we've
seen is just unprecedented is wrong
because we have seen but when they have
been these types of moves in the past,
you tend to get amazing volatility, huge
amounts of volatility.
>> The thing about Korea and the thing
about the rest of the technology sector
is we're baking in amazing earnings
today and we're projecting them for the
next few years.
>> Look at how cheap Korea is compared to
everything else. Double
>> digits. Yeah, but that's based on
today's earnings. But if you base it
over the last 5 years, average earnings,
so take a weighted over the cycle, it's
really expensive. So it just depends
what you think. Do you think these
earnings are sustainable?
>> I think they're sustainable for maybe
two years and then I know if I was
making chips, I'd be building as much
capacity as I possibly could right now
because the profitability is amazing. So
that's going to come online in two or
three years time. And at that point,
you're going to start to question mark
the sustainability of those earnings.
What about China? Is China still on your
radar this year?
>> So, China, it's interesting. We spoke
about Korea just to sort of go back 18
months ago. Korea was un
underperforming. We said, you know, the
profitability wasn't there, the
governance wasn't there.
>> You can maybe make those points about
China today that they've underperformed
that there is a question mark about the
leadership wanting to make earnings uh
accelerate. So maybe China is the new
career. That's the that's the question
mark. I mean I would have my doubts just
because again I think they have much
more focus on other parts of uh China in
terms of they want to have more
employment. They want to have more
manufacturing capacity but you know
there's a chance that I think China
could uh outperform Korea in the next
year but it might not be because China
accelerates. It might be because Korea
plateaus. I was about to ask what the
specific catalyst would be for for China
because I mean cheap valuations have
>> have been there for a while
>> have been there for a while and seldom
are in in of itself you know catalyst
right
>> yeah so Korea's catalyst weirdly was not
the announcement of this new focus on
earnings it was just the fact that SK
high and Samsung made tons of money so
maybe the catalyst is some companies in
China start to make loads and loads of
money that [laughter] that would help of
course it would
>> you make of everyone's been talking the
SpaceX IPO. I mean, yeah, obviously it
went by smoothly. Yeah.
>> But it's just a moment in time when
you're we're tracking what these other
big names that are set to come to the
market, these private companies, you
know, raising money in public markets
now in a really big way.
>> How do you think that changed dynamics
in
>> Yeah. So that would be my question about
the technology overweight. So
structurally we want to be technology
overweight because of the earnings but
if we were to get indigestion at some
point and it might be via the IPO market
it might more likely around the credit
market actually that's the place that we
could see some indigestion. If we see
that indigestion
>> then equity investors might worry about
how these companies can afford to do
their build out and at that point we
could get a more sustainable correction
in markets. So yeah, that's the thing
that I'm really looking for indigestion,
but we haven't seen it yet. But yeah,
that'd be my concern.
>> And is it demand for all these bonds
that they're issuing? When you talk
about the credit markets,
>> there is demand. Demand in the US
investment grade market is up 25%. So
the the supply of these bonds is up 25%
and they've all been sold very well, but
there's a dispersion happening in credit
markets. So some of those names that are
doing a lot of issuance are trading at
pretty wide levels,
>> whereas other parts of the credit market
are really, really, really tight. That
dispersion normally would pred would
precede widening credit spreads. We
haven't seen that yet. We're starting to
see the winners and losers. Again, I've
got my eyes on that as as a question
mark going forward.
>> Ben, it's great to have you. Ben Bennett
there, Asia head of investment strategy
at LNG. And coming up, we're speak a
little more on what this means for ECO
and the like. Nixa CIB's Alicia Garcia
Herrera will be joining us as we digest
news of an interim deal between the US
and Iran. That's just a few moments
there. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> All right, we're checking when it comes
to oil [music] stocks here this morning
in this part of the world and you are
seeing the likes of Santos down some 6%
and falling the oil price lower here. Uh
there are some nuances here like S oil
for example is actually heading the
opposite direction. Uh but Bloomberg
Intelligence just coming out with their
forecast here with the Hormuz [music]
reopening. China demand slump could send
oil back below $70. That's according to
Henik Fung and his [music] team there.
We're also watching of course gold given
the fact that we're back above that
4,300 level for gold there. There you
go. Miners are loving that like the Bell
Gold up double digits here this morning.
[music] And crypto also seeing a bit of
recovery there. So certainly you're
seeing some of these Asia crypto stocks
[music] also mostly higher here. We got
plenty more to come. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
hang [music] to that lunch break in just
a moment. And it looks like it's sunny
skies in Tokyo here this morning. You're
seeing that reflected across equity
markets here today. We're up five for
the Nicke25. uh 3% gains for the topics
as well. Dollar yen though,
interestingly, you know, despite the
dollar moves, we're still above 160. Um
there's still a lot of anticipation of
the BOJ this week as well, but likely
set to hike, right? Even without
Governor Uea there uh in person, but
yes, he is going through surgery and
recovering. Uh we are down four basis
points for your JGB yields today for the
10 year. Yeah, apart from uh many other
central banks that are on deck this
week, of course, including the Fed,
which I think based on some of the
conversations we've had so far here in
shows, I mean, is is there a question
mark around the rate hike price for the
year? And most people say they can still
actually go ahead and interest given how
sticky inflation has been there and of
course the labor market that perhaps
might explain why dollar yen is still
trading at about 160 in terms of that
rate differential. The rest of the
region, 3% to the upside on the Asia
Pacific. So markets are reacting quite
noticeably and strongly to the headlines
that have come through so far. We'll get
to the details in a moment here. But
yes, they are expected to meet in
Switzerland on Friday, sign that deal,
and then we count six days from that
point in time for them to get into the
more difficult issues. Uh there markets
are rallying with the exception of
course of energy because of course of
the pullback we're seeing in oil prices
today.
>> Yep. Because it looks to be maybe that
this reopening of the straightforward
moves, right? So that continues to be
the big story here on how quickly of
course tankers and commercial freight
and shurers uh will be have enough
confidence to go through that waterway
once again. Let's bring that back to of
course our top story now really and what
we've been hearing about right those
talks that are could be underway as
early as Friday in Switzerland. Uh let's
go to the Middle East and get to of
course uh Abu Air Abu Almar joining us
from Dubai. Air it's great to have you
on the program. um just tell us how the
Middle East is reacting to the headlines
that we got over the weekend so far.
>> Good morning. Well, we just woke up to
this news right overnight about thisou
that is now sign that is not signed that
is going to be signed on June 19th, but
both sides have reached an agreement on
on some of the concessions. Now, it's
just important to keep in mind that we
still don't know what details both
parties have accepted. We'll have to
wait and see what theou includes. what
are the concessions that both sides have
agreed to? But over the past few days,
we've seen some of the details in uh in
the interim peace deal between Iran and
the United States. And those include
some of the points that we've been
discussing over the past couple of
months, right? That includes the
reopening of the Strait of Hermuz. That
is the most pressing point for uh Iran
and the United States. that also
includes the frozen assets, the oil
sanctions, and most importantly to
President Trump, the nuclear uh
capabilities of Iran. Now, what we
understand is that on June 19th, both
sides are going to meet to sign thisou
that would in turn extend the ceasefire
for 60 days, reopen the straight of
Hermuz. President Trump did say that the
delay in reaching uh some in in getting
to the table and and agreeing on those
on those details was because both sides
wanted to get some uh concessions about
uh removing mines from the straight of
Hermuz that is a big story that we've
been again talking about since late
February. And so once that was settled
both sides have come and agreed to do
things but look we're getting until now
we're getting some conflicting
statements from both sides. You've got
the Iranians essentially saying that the
US had bulked at their uh requests and
you've got the United States saying that
it's a strategic win for the United
States. And so when it comes to really
understanding who gets out of this,
saying they've strategically won and
they've aligned the concessions to their
own sovereign benefits, we still have to
wait and see what the final details are.
And look the an a lot of analysts, a lot
of commentators uh are saying that this
is a step towards positivity. It's not a
certain thing yet. We still have to wait
and see whether the deal is going to be
signed. And then just remember that this
is an interim deal. This is the the
interim or the temporary deal that we've
been talking about for two months. This
is not the final deal. The final deal
will come to fruition once both sides
agree on nuclear on Iran's nuclear uh
program essentially in the enriched
uranium and that will be happening
during the negotiations period that will
take place over the next 60 days and
then once that happens a final deal may
be signed maybe not. President Trump
says if that does not happen, he's not
opposed to militarily striking Iran yet
again.
>> Air, thank you so much. Abu Omar there,
our Middle East correspondent there with
the latest on what we know so far. It's
encouraging news, but lots of people are
still waiting for the details uh on this
one. In fact, our Bloomberg economics
team have put out this very short note
uh on that in terms of their
expectations on what to watch as we move
ahead here. Uh so we let me just read
that. assess that the odds for any deal
of any deal lasting are low. Instead,
both sides are likely to use any lull uh
in the fighting to prepare for the next
round of host hostilities. Read out
about that, of course, on your Bloomberg
terminal. Uh that takes us then into how
central banks of course are going to be
looking at this as we go into a very
busy week of monetary policy decisions.
Of course, they had to figure out where
inflation will be in the future. It's
taken a lot of time, weeks, and months
for inflation to show up on the headline
numbers. is and when can we expect
inflation if any at all uh to drop? Bank
Indonesia's on deck. We're expecting
another hike there if not a bigger one.
Of course, 50 also out of the
Philippines. The bank central of course
of course of course of course of course
of course meets also this week. We are
expecting potentially also a 50 basis
point hike coming through out of Manila.
>> Yeah. Look who's in town. Alicia Garcia
Herrera, chief Asia Pacific economist at
the Texas CIB. Um there's so much to
digest with of course the headlines over
the weekend. Alicia, do you think for
central banks when they factor in the
possibility of the end of this war in
the in their monetary policy decisions
now?
>> I think what they're will factor in is
the fact that the probability of a hike
uh fed hike is lower. That I think
that's the key. Um, and that's going to
last probably enough for them to to
breathe and perhaps not do the 50s
you're discussing, but 25, you know,
because they realize that that it is
costly to do that. And that's why
they've been dragging their feed. And I
would say they even frontloaded cuts in
2025 that they shouldn't have
frontloaded hoping for the Fed to cut
and they cut the Fed didn't cut and you
know they were kind of I they were
caught in this war with a for me a two
laks uh monetary stance. So they should
do 50 but I think this news might
actually prevent them or you know give
them a little bit of room not to do so
but it's a wishful thinking because this
deal I quite agree with your analyst is
is is not ideal yet. So you know um
hoping that inflation expectations will
come down is is is wishful thinking but
but again they might they might do less.
I I I would imagine BI just you know
hyped so they may feel okay just 25 25 B
and same for BSP but again they might
still fall behind the curve if this is
not a real deal
>> in terms of demand destruction on the
real economy what have you seen since
the war started in both those
>> frankly uh I think the first quarter has
been quite good for what one could have
expected I think I think the the numbers
have surprised I would say Indonesia in
particular
Um but you know this is because that
these are markets both the Philippines
and Indonesia that really rely on on
domestic demand and I think it's very
hard to stop. Again let's not forget
that their fiscal and monetary stance is
quite lax. So you know they do have that
room and we need to wait for the second
half of the year
>> to to to really see that demand
destruction. So so again it all hinges
on whether this deal is not only a
wishful deal but a real deal.
if it comes to comes true um which Asian
economies do you think could benefit or
be the more likely winners of this deal?
>> So we can see in the market today that
there is a few that you know have jumped
Korea or you know Japan I mean those
that I think you would argue have the
the good underlying uh macro for them to
benefit. But if you look at Indonesia or
India we we still have to to see whether
the market believes this is enough
because they have their own issues. It's
not only about Iran. So those should be
the jumpers if you think about it. Those
that really need it the most. Yeah. I
mean if you look at equity inflows into
India is like minus 40. I mean this is
terrible. Yeah. But but will will a deal
be enough? That's the key question for
these two markets. I would say Indonesia
and India. And if you push me even worse
for Indonesia because there's a lot
going out there that goes beyond oil
prices or so. So yeah they and that's
why I would hike 50 if you ask me
because I would have to show my intent
no matter what the news flow is. I want
to control inflation. I know that you
know I need to show my again my intent
that I will be controlling this economy.
Uh but I'm not sure they will.
>> There is an element to your point of
credibility is that is is is at risk
here. Can I ask you about Korea and
Taiwan since she mentioned that are
those two economies overheating?
Taiwan is clearly overheating because
you know that there is not enough
resources for this boom. If you look at
industrial production what over 29 uh
the economy is expected to grow 10% with
the you know
>> second year
>> second year this you can't find anybody
to work because you know it's it's just
very overheated but but this is of
course uh the talent the resources the
energy the water being pulled to a
single sector the others are suffering
because you know although the inflation
numbers may not show you know the full
there's obviously inflationary pressures
because wages are increasing in that
specific sector not elsewhere. So I
would say there's two problems over uh I
would say targeted overheating let's
call it this way a sector overheating
the other suffering because of the
overheating overall though full
overheating because that sector is
becoming so large
>> I think for Korea is a little bit better
because it's more diversified than
Taiwan by far I mean even if we we see
it similarly if you look at index it's
just not comparable Taiwan is much more
concentrated in semiconductors than
South Korea so I think South Korea has
more room to deal with this shocking is
it's just um more diversified in in
essence. Um and there's another reason
that I think you could see the one
eventually. Yeah. I mean it
>> I know it's hard because this we have
these big outflows into all these IPOs
in the US. Yeah. That's that's a problem
for the one to be frank. In Taiwan it's
a little bit harder. Yeah. Because of
capital controls.
>> Uh but there's still big outbound uh
investment. Yeah. Into Korea. Sorry.
into Japan into US but I would say a
rebound of the one is more likely than a
rebound of the entity. Yeah. Because the
the central bank won't allow it. So so
in that regard I think the Korean
economy can adjust faster to this to
this uh overheating than the Taiwanese
economy can. These are the two
differences more concentrated and less
ability to adjust because the central
bank is a little bit cornered. Yeah. In
in this manage a chain rate and I think
the one can do more eventually if those
outflows
um I wouldn't say stop but at least uh
decelerate yeah outflows into the US.
Yeah.
>> You're saying these big IPOs in the US
could be a big
>> Can you flush what what concerns you the
most about it? No, the thing is I think
the Korean one should be stronger if
just look at you know any macro data
same for entity
>> and look at the current account surplus.
Yeah, the current account surplus I mean
Taiwan is 15% of GDP. But in the case of
uh Korea, I think the the outflows into
US stock market is is really really
driving the thing and and and therefore
if that were to if you had a little bit
of a news of okay, you know, this is
over this these IPOs are a little bit
expensive perhaps, put it this way,
maybe if that doesn't resume, you could
see the one really rebound on the back
of this deal. Yeah, on the back of the
deal kind of
>> for the entities much harder because
it's very managed and I don't think they
will want to see any massive movement in
in the currency also because a lot of
sectors are suffering.
>> I mean it is much more of a dual economy
than than Korea. So that's why I think
the currency can look very different the
adjustment can look very different from
this overheated economy in in one and
the other.
>> Yeah.
>> In the middle is China. So we talked
about the inflation issues with
Indonesia, whatever, what have you, and
of course the the booming ones. What's
the macro outlook for China?
>> So I just came back from Shanghai. I
think you know the word dual economy,
uh, which I've been using for a while. I
never thought I would have to use it for
so long. No, it is more than dual. It's
increasingly dual. So you see this
massive export boom continuing. We had
data. It's just impressive.
for for May um is all there you can see
it but the deflationary pressures even
if you don't see it on producer prices
you see it on consumer prices so there's
a cost push inflation that companies
cannot pass on to the domestic demand
and that means their margins are
shrinking even further and I think you
understand why the government this is
BYD but there's many other companies is
pushing for account receivables to be
paid because the smaller companies are
suffering more and more
>> so you know that duality whoever is in
the domestic market is suffering.
Whoever is mainly geared toward towards
the export market is doing relatively
well. I wouldn't say very well because
the margins are also shrinking there.
But that's that's the story. And overall
I guess I mean the the success part is
is this massive moving up the ladder.
Yeah. That that that is the positive
part. China's technological uh upswing
and and this massive uh gains in
competition with the US. I think that's
the geopolitically I guess no doubt but
the domestic economy is a different
topic. Yeah, that there I think I don't
see much u happening and no stimulus no
no real stimulus also because there's no
room for that. banks have no margins,
you know, how do you do that? If you cut
rates, uh, a lot of sectors, especially
insurance companies and and banks will
suffer. So that duality is increasingly
true in the Chinese economy.
>> You mentioned about the the dual
economy. I mean, we saw that the latest
directive from policy makers that you
cannot remove or at least replace jobs
with AI.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> What what other polic like what else can
they do really?
>> Yeah. So this is a I think uh Hanjo's uh
uh yeah a court decision. So it's not
really yet like a like a legislation
>> but I think it shows the direction. So
companies have to be careful
>> but let's not forget China has a very
flexible labor market in terms of you
know um if you think about labor
protection in any way yeah labor unions
or you know legislation all all together
except for SOE can go very fast. Yeah,
it can go very very fast. If not
necessarily full employment like
employment, it could be wages. So we
already see a rapid deceleration of
wages in chi in China. And I think
that's the way to go. Probably people
will just have fewer hours. Yeah. Like
uh unpaid voluntary unpaid leave, you
know, and then the the actual disposable
income will suffer. Yeah. That I think
that's the way we will see the impact of
AI on China's private sector. And then
you know uh stateowned uh banks or SOE
will have their KPIs will be to absorb
these people but again they can't
possibly pay enough you know for wages
to grow. So in in that regard I think
you'll see more employment in the in the
in the public sector frankly less in the
private sector lower wages I think
that's the adjustment mechanism for
China. very different from the US.
>> Yeah,
>> that's another dual economy. SOE in
private. Um Alicia, thank you so much.
Very nice to see you here in town,
Alicia Garcia there, chief Asia Pacific
economist at Netix's CIB. Uh just ahead
in the next hour, Bloomberg television
will be speaking exclusively [music]
with Pakistan's finance minister after
of course uh they played a very central
role in the big news [music] this
morning. They mediated this interim deal
between the US uh and Iran. And as we go
into the break, just a glance at West
Texas. [music] We are closing in on the
80 handle to the downside on West Texas.
Lots more ahead. This is Bloom.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Right. Have [music] a look at where we
are on oil prices. Uh certainly this is
the the top end of what used to be my
marks in high school at about [laughter]
80. So just enough I think right is just
enough to get us
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
>> We'll believe it. Yeah.
>> We dig up your resume and all that.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh yeah overplaying it.
>> No. But anyways, um we're tracking of
course the the reaction across the world
when it comes to what we heard from US
and Iran reaching this deal to reopen
the straight over moves on Friday and
world leaders are really welcoming it uh
with this interim agreement after months
of disruption that drove up oil prices
and this really against the backdrop of
the G7 when President Trump is expected
to head to France of course after that
big UFC match in the White House. Let's
bring in our Tenner correspondent Milo.
Tell us more about the international
response you've heard so far. Yeah, I
think the tone has been cautiously
optimistic from many of these world
leaders, right? And you mentioned the G7
meeting. You have those major European
powers including Germany, Italy, the UK
saying that they're willing to lift
relevant sanctions on Iran if there are
clear and verifiable steps that Iran is
going to undo that nuclear program. And
then you have so that's joint statement
from some of these countries. And then
you have uh Australia as well, Elbanese
saying that he really welcomes this move
and he hopes that this is a time for
both parties to look at a long-term sort
of peace, right, and address the
long-standing issue particularly when it
comes to the nuclear program and of
course acknowledging that this reopening
of the street would be positive. Uh it
would ease the pressure on oil prices,
on the economy and of course Japan as
well. Osana Taki also putting out a
statement on X and she was saying that
this is really an important step to the
resolution of the situation and hopes
that it will lead to a free and safe
navigation of the street of Homus and
we're seeing a lot of these Asian
countries reaction as well because many
of these countries particularly the
energy importers like South Korea,
Japan, Taiwan, India especially these
are the countries that would stand to
benefit the most when the street of
Homus reopened because of that oil
import. Have you heard from mainland
China?
>> No, not yet. That is one of the notable
major countries that haven't responded
yet. But I think we'll be monitoring
that, especially when we have the
foreign ministry press briefing this
afternoon. Potentially we could hear
from uh the spokesperson there. But so
far there hasn't been any sign right
that China is involved in this latest
round of this interim agreement. It
seems like Pakistan was playing the
major role as that broker. Um but
interesting to keep an eye on what else
China could do going forward because
there's still a lot of unanswered
question with this interim agreement
especially when it comes to the nuclear
deal right if Iran is not willing to let
the US come in to extract or destroy
those nuclear stockpile could China play
a role for example in you know having
those nuclear or enrich uranium
transferred to China to be destroyed in
China or to be processed for peaceful
use that is certainly an option that
some analysts are talking about although
President Trump has signal that he's
uncomfortable with that but still it's a
remote possibility as a sort of
compromise between Iran and the US.
Minman, thank you so much. Minman Lo,
our China correspondent there for
Bloomberg clients. TLIVG go. We have an
ongoing uh blog here conversation around
this big story. Of course, we're
tracking today as uh you see with market
reaction. It's quite obvious why uh this
is of course our top story today. Lots
more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
All right, as we just wrap up the show
today, just [music] keep in mind, of
course, the big news is both sides have
announced, they've yet to sign, but
they've announced the intention uh to
sign this early agreement. Obviously,
markets are reacting or to the the news
and uh in fact, at the moment, we're at
session lows on on both West Texas and
Brent as we head into what we're very
very close now to 80 bucks on on West
Texas, as you can see. Yeah, our our BI
analyst Hong's team says, "Look, we
could be sub 80 or even closer to 70 uh
if we continue to see, you know, more,
you know, energy flows go through the
straight of Hormuz and really um the
reopening of that story. So certainly
that's one thing to watch. Still lots of
things to look out for when it comes to
Iran, though, right? They they're still
talking about ships passing through the
straight will be regulated by Iran and
Oman, right? So that's a signal that
maybe Tyrron would still want to retain
some sort of control over the straight
of horm right whether we can actually
see you know per you know permanently as
President Trump said tollfree is another
question too when it comes to the
straight of hormoods as well US futures
are doing this right now we're up about
1% or more so could be waking up to a
pretty good Monday there on [music] Wall
Street and of course MXAP continues to
see those gains there we have plenty
more to come here with of course a
Pakistan finance minister this is
Bloomberg